We added our shadow DOM and this changed things by a lot. It is the right way to go but we're now
missing our text we had there initially and we'll now dive into a feature called templates to define
our base HTML structure of this HTML element, of our custom element and to later also bring
back that text we passed between the opening and closing tags of our custom element.
Now for templates, we got two alternatives.
The first alternative for adding a template to our custom element is to go into our HTML document and
there, we can add a new element, the template element. This is a HTML element built into the browser,
understood by the browser
and the important thing here is that this element is not rendered automatically.
Now here we can take our question mark and add it in there like this, we had it in the span so let's wrap
it in a span here too, so like that.
Now we have a template which in the end is just that span with the questionmark inside of it.
So this is now our template and now we want to use that template as a blueprint for the HTML content
that makes up our custom element.
So previously, we simply created that HTML content in the connected callback and we happened to
have a very simple HTML template for our tooltip,
we only have this span with the questionmark being added but it's easy to imagine more complex custom
elements, like a video player which has dozens of buttons and so on.
Now to use that content of the template in our web component now, I'll first of all give this template
an ID of tooltip-template for example and now in the tooltip.js file, in the constructor where we
can access the normal DOM, just not the DOM of this tooltip but we don't need that here, there
I will now get my template and I'll store it in a constant by using the document query selector, again accessing
the normal page DOM not the DOM of this custom component and there, I will use the ID selector to
select the tooltip-template, so I'm using that ID which I just added to my template. Now I get access
to this template and now I want to basically copy the code I set up in that template,
so this span in this case here and use it as a template for my custom component and for that, I will
simply access my shadow root which is available because I attach it to the shadow DOM and there, I will
call append child.
I can do that here because I can already access the shadow DOM even before the element has been rendered
to the real DOM because the shadow DOM remember, is kind of abstracted away from the real DOM anyways,
so this is available in the constructor
and now I will append a child here and the child is my template and there, we can access a content property
to access basically the content inside of the template and on the content, we can call cloneNode
and there you have to pass a boolean indicating whether you want to do a deep clone or a shallow clone.
A deep clone means that you would clone any nested elements in there too,
so if you had like a h1 tag inside of that span, you would clone that too
if you set the argument to true, if you set it to false, you will only clone the top level of elements.
Now I will perform a deep clone here by setting this to true
and with that if I now save that
and we reload the page, we see double quotation marks here actually.
The reason for that being that we still have our own code in there to add another questionmark,
so we should remove that
and in addition, I will just change this a little bit down there, here
I will set my tooltip icon equal to this shadow root
and now here I want to find that span by simply adding a query selector because we can query the shadow DOM
just as we can query the normal DOM and I'll
find that span there. Now with that if I save that and we reload this page,
we have one questionmark only
but I can still hover over that.
So now we are using our template, our HTML template here. Now this is one way of doing it
but of course this has a couple of drawbacks,
for example this web component now requires some content to be added to our HTML file where are
we in the end  just want to use that web component
and of course we're still losing that text here.
Now we can fix that text even with this approach but I will also show you an alternative
to this approach because it would be nice to have all the web component being composed in our Javascript
file here, so that we don't have to add a template to the HTML code.
And I will show you both this solution and a solution for our lost text here
over the next lectures.